# Sprint-Review_Retrospective
Agile and Scrum review and retrospective word doc and powerpoint. 


Essential Questions
**How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?**
User needs are always different and can sometimes clash with the project all together. One of the better ways of doing things, is to take yourself out of the project and think as if you were a consumer of this project. There are many ways of doing this and finding the consumer wishes for projects helps. However, at the beginning when the project is at early stages - understanding the developmental background of the project the client(s) / or stakeholder(s) needs should come first. They have a vision of this product and understanding their wants for the end goal is entirely one of th edriving factors behind the user stories. These stories are then shaped into developmental ideologies and ultimately added into the products backlog. Though they are not stagnent until completed. All project change over time, therefor the end users have  asay in the project creation. These user stories help identify trends in the game and those become backbones of what makes this project sell. It is the culmination of the client(s) / stakeholder(s) and the end users stories that make the development of the project work. A Product Owner can make these judgements, with communication between the development team and the client(s) / stakeholder(s). 

**How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?**
My appraoch to developing programs is kind of like a puzzle. If I am creating something on my own, I like to start at the base. What is the base of the structure I am creating. If there is a project, who am I working with and what are there strengths. How big is the team I am working with and do I understand all the constraints am I working with. These questions give me the base of the project. I then look for the technical side, what applications do I have at my disposal. How do I get those applications to the do what I need them to do, and am I familiar with them. Last I look into how long I have till I need to have things done. I then start with the tasks I know I can do simply. These tasks will only get forgotten if I continue to say I can do that fast and will do it later. Later never comes. Therefore, they get done first. I then prioritize everything else and start developing on the prioroty list. The best thing I can do that comes from an agile point of view is morning stand-ups. Ask where I am in the project, what I am doing today and any bugs I need to focus on that hinders work. The morning stand-up is a developers best tool to identify where they are in the progress of work and where they need to be.

**What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?**
A good team member knows what they can do, and understand what they need help with. Having good communication skills is essential to being a good software developer. This means telling people I don't know how to do that. And others not judging people for not knowning. Having a safe place to work in without judgement will make for good habbits and people can ultimately work in piece. Another aspect is try to understand why someone does something a specific way. If their way has a better time-efficiency algorithm than what you thought, look at how they did that and try to better your own work by learning from others. Don't awlays be the person to say I don't know when someone has shown you to do this same thing before. It is okay to say I need help with something they showed you a few times before. But don't always do that 100% of the time. It is okay to ask questions, it is not okay to learn the answers from those questions. Last and most important is to show up for work. Software development is a more relaxed envirnoment than other areas. However, you need to do work and show and treat others with the resect they show you. 


All this is open to interpretation and if you don't feel the same as I, that is okay. Everyone is different and has different approaches. No two people are 100% alike. I just want people to show respect and not judge others for not understanding. ESpecialy new people on the job. Anxiety is a real thing and the more you judge others in their work place the less safe they feel and the more hostile the workplace becomes. And software development does not need that type of environment. 
